DOCS-10595-jms-transactions-kt (#1423)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-transactions.adoc

= Manage Transactions in JMS Connector
:keywords: jms, connector, transactions, transactional
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-transactions.adoc

> Transactional connections in JMS enables you to execute a series of operations to perform only when the transaction occurs. This has two main scenarios:

Reviewer: This is kind of an unusual numerical agreement issue: transactional connections is one thing, as a feature (connection enables), but more than one thing, as connections (connections enable). And the title uses only "transactions": can we use that?

Reviewer: "This has two main scenarios:" > consider instead "Use this feature when you want to:" or "Use these connections when you want to:"

* Publish a message as part of a transaction +

> When you use the *Publish* operation, the application sends the message to the destination once the transaction occurs. If for some reason the transaction fails and a rollback occurs, then the message is not sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the *Publish* operation, the application sends the message to the destination after the transaction occurs. If for some reason the transaction fails and a rollback occurs, the message is not sent.
```

* Consume a message as part of a transaction +

> In case of consuming a message, either with the *On New Message* source or the *Consume* operation, the message is acknowledged only after the transaction occurs. If the transaction rolls back, the message returns to the destination for redelivery.

Reviewer: Since the first part of this sentence just repeats the list item it describes, I suggest omitting it and replacing it with language parallel to its peer:
```suggestion
When you use either the *On New Message* source or the *Consume* operation, the message is acknowledged only after the transaction occurs. If the transaction rolls back, the message returns to the destination for redelivery.
```

Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) provides support for executing the operations by configuring the *Transactional action* field.

== Configure Transactions for Sources

> If you want the *On New Message* source to use a transactional session when dispatching the messages, configure the *Transactional action* field to `ALWAYS_BEGIN`. With this configuration, each new message is processed in a transaction that propagates to all the components in the flow and occurs once the flow execution completes successfully. The transaction rolls back if the flow execution returns an error.

Reviewer: I just want to point out some uses of more than one wording to express the same thing; this can cause some readers to be confused or at least cause them pause:

transactional session, transactions, transactional connections
dispatch message, send message
process message, consume message

When possible, try to use just one term for one thing/action throughout a topic set.

Reviewer: GLOBAL: "once" > "after"

> By default, other components in the flow do not join the transaction created by the *On New Message* source. In order to execute other operations using the source transaction, configure in those components the *Transactional action* field either with `ALWAYS_JOIN` or `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE`.

Reviewer: GLOBAL replacement:
```suggestion
By default, other components in the flow do not join the transaction created by the *On New Message* source. To execute other operations using the source transaction, configure in those components the *Transactional action* field either with `ALWAYS_JOIN` or `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE`.
```

In the following example, you configure the transactional session for new messages:

. In Studio, select the *On New Message* source from your flow.
. Set the *Destination* field to `${originQueue}`.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Transactional action* field to `ALWAYS_BEGIN`.

.JMS Connector Transactional action configuration
image::jms-transaction-1.png[In the Advanced tab, set the Transactional action field to ALWAYS_BEGIN]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:listener>` and `transactionalAction` configurations look like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:listener config-ref="JMS_Config" destination="${originQueue}" transactionalAction="ALWAYS_BEGIN"/>
----

== Configure Transactions for Operations

To execute an operation like *Publish* or *Consume* as part of a transaction, configure the *Transactional action* field to `ALWAYS_JOIN` or `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE`.

In the following example, you configure the *Publish* and *Consume* operations that join a transaction initiated by the *On New Message* source:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Mule *Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.
```

> . Drag *On New Message* to the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: Consistency
```suggestion
. Drag *On New Message* onto the Studio canvas.
```

. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `${originQueue}`.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Transactional action* field to `ALWAYS_BEGIN`.
. Drag a *Publish* operation to the right of the *On New Message* source.
. Set the the *Destination* field to `#[attributes.properties.userProperties.redirectDestination]`.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Transactional action* field to `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE`.
. Drag a *Consume* operation to the right of the *Publish* operation.
. Set the the *Destination* field to `#[attributes.properties.userProperties.callbackDestination]`.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Transactional action* field to `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE`.

.JMS Connector Transactional action configuration for Consume operation
image::jms-transaction-2.png[In the Advanced tab, set the Transactional action field JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE]

> In the XML editor, the `transactionalAction` configuration look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `transactionalAction` configuration looks like this:
```

</flow>
----

> In the following example, you configure a scoped transaction, using a Try scope component, JMS *Publish* and *Publish consume* operation, and the Validation *Is true* operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure a scoped transaction, using a Try scope component, the JMS *Publish* and *Publish consume* operations, and the Validation module *Is true* operation:
```

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Mule *Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
```

> . Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag *Listener* onto the Studio canvas.
```

. In the *Listener* configuration screen, set the *Path* field to `/orders`.
. Drag a *Try* scope component to the right of the *Listener* source.
. Set the *Transactional action* field to `ALWAYS_BEGIN`.

> . Drag a JMS *Publish* operation inside the *Try* scope component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a JMS *Publish* operation into the *Try* scope component.
```
